Here everyone and in this lecture we will learn how to create dynamic routes with the
help of expo routers.
Dynamic routes let you build screen that accept parameters from the URL or we can say navigation
path just like dynamic URL on the web and this makes your navigation feel more flexible.
Perfect. So what are dynamic routes? So in let's say in Xpo route basically here you
wanted to have let's say you are on post. But as you know we have multiple posts onto
our platform like post one, post two and each post have different ID.
And for each post, I wanted to have a route segment.
All right, for each post, I wanted to have a separate route.
So instead of separately creating for every post ID, we can use something known as dynamic
routes because let's say right now you only have three posts.
So you are basically going to create.
We can say post1.tsx exactly post2.tsx, post3.tsx and in future let's say you have millions
of posts then is this feasible to create post1 to post1 million.tsx?
No.
This is where the use of dynamic routes come.
Perfect, so how this actually work?
This is going to be basically work something like square notation.
Perfect, so you are basically going to use your parameters as we can say brackets and
explore outer automatically treat that parameter as a variable in the path and then with the
help of some hook, we will going to understand that in a while, you can basically create
dynamic routes.
Let's say if I just try to give you an example of this, so you can treat this as a dynamic
route.
Let's say we have a app router and inside this app router we have this post and each
post have this unique square bracket and inside that square bracket we basically have something
on as post ID.
So, this post ID is a dynamic route.
So, every time for post one, this one is going to replace this post ID same for two, same
for the one million that we have perfect.
So, by doing this, we are going to follow the best practice.
So, now let's move ahead and we'll see how you can basically create it.
So, for that, let me go to my VS Code and inside this app, let's say inside this profile,
we have this user, but let's take the post example.
So let me say this as a post and inside this post create a new file.
and use the square bracket here and let me call this as a post ID dot TSX. Easy step number one is done.
Then simply initialize a React component as RNFES and instead of this you can simply say this as post ID screen.
Perfect. Now how you can use it and how you can basically design it to see.
So for that let me just add some basic design.
So, I have just basically added a container which is centralizing everything and then
a basic title with font size and font weight, easy.
And then let me just simply use that here for now.
This one and you might be thinking from where this post ID will come.
So for that, we have this hook.
So first of all, let me extract post ID from a use local search param.
Easy and definitely you can give type to it.
But for now, let me just simply use it.
And this is coming from expo router and yeah, our dynamic route is up and running.
Perfect.
and close it. Now how you can visit to this page? Very easy, nothing is rocket science
here, you can simply create a link. This link will going to be redirect myself, let's say
post id page and then here let me off my AI, disturbing me a lot.
And here I can simply say and you will see that we have a suggestion this one, but instead
of passing something like this, I can pass some random number.
Is the ignore this type error for now?
And if I save it and now if I press this post ID page, you will see I am redirected to this
dynamic route.
And if I just change this number to 1.
And once again, I coming to here once again, if I press, you will see data is coming as one.
So this means I need not to create a separate route for each ID.
Instead, I can go with this notation.
Make sense.
I hope so. This is not any rocket science. And again, in same way, you can create nested, we can say dynamic route as well.
Let's say inside this post ID.
And into this, you again wanted to create some folder.
We can say post detail and this post detail inside this, we have some other data as well.
So you can create nested IDs as well.
So let's ignore that for now.
For now, you just focus over this.
This is how you can create dynamic routes inside your application.
Perfect.
And make sure to keep this thing in mind.
The name you are writing here is going to be destructured from here.
Don't misspell this otherwise you are going to be encountered with an error.
Perfect.
And again, as I say, you can definitely use some advanced routing nested routing techniques.
Let's say this is just a basic thing, but you can even go with this approach.
Like you have app inside this app you have this users, users we have user ID that have
post and then we have post ID for it.
So yes this is how you can even create nested dynamic routes as well.
So I am assuming you guys can do this and take this as an assignment and try to implement
that by yourself.
Perfect.
So yeah, this is pretty much it for this dynamic routes and from next chapter we are
going to understand more about we can say cache all route segment and then we can move
to layout and we have a lot of things to cover.
So don't worry about it.
But for now, this is pretty much it and see you next time.